# SPHM: A MATLAB code for SPH simulations

This is a collection of MATLAB files for SPH simulations.

For documentation, please refer to the comments in the code and to the preprint:

- [SPHM: a MATLAB package for Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics simulations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.05189),
M. Sutti, Tech. report, September 2022.

The code is mainly based on the corresponding FORTRAN code contained in:

- Liu, G. R. and Liu, M. B. Smoothed particle hydrodynamics: a meshfree particle method. World Scientific, Singapore, 2003.

If there are any issues or bugs, feel free to email me at msutti (at) ncts.tw


## I) Version History

- Last changes: Feb 22, 2024.
- Ver 2, Sep 12, 2022.
- Ver 1, Jul 11, 2021: initial release.


## II) Contents

The code is organized in the following folders:
- `eos`: contains the equations of state for ideal gas and artificial water.
- `examples`: contains parameters and data for the 1D shock tube and the 2D shear cavity problems.
- `plots`: contains the plots generated from the simulation data.
- `postprocessing`: contains utilities for plotting and visualizing data.
- `results`: contains the matfiles generated by `Driver_SPHM`.
- `utilities`: contains all the core functions for the SPH simulations.
- `videos`: contains videos of the simulations.


## III) Installation and Usage

No installation is required.

- Use `Driver_SPHM` to perform an SPH simulation. The results of the simulations will be saved into matfiles in the results folder. 
- The script `Driver_Animation` can be used to generate a video of the simulation. The script `Driver_shocktube_profiles` generates the profile plots for the shock tube example.
- The script `Driver_shear_cavity_steady_state` generates the plots for the shear-driven cavity problem at the steady state.
- The script `Driver_Sod_shocktube` can be used to visualize the profiles of the exact solution to the classical Sod shock tube problem.


## IV) License

The code written by me is GPL-licensed.
